
# Raw2Swagger


## Description

Generate swagger specs from raw data of the utilization of the API rather than from the annotations on the API.

Typically swagger spec is written and published by the API owners via annotation on the source code of their API. The problem is that not all providers bother to use Swagger to describe their API.

Raw2swagger intends to create an accurate swagger specs from raw data using unsupervised learning on raw data that you, an API consumer, can collect. For instance instrumenting the API plugin or storing the requests logs against the API that you want to built the swagger spec for.

#### What is Swagger?

[Swagger](https://developers.helloreverb.com/swagger/) is a specification (JSON-based) to describe REST APIs. 

The swagger spec can be used to automatically generate beautiful documentation for your API that can be used interactively by your users. 

Many API management solutions like [3scale](http://www.3scale.net/) accept swagger-specs to describe your API so that documentation [looks like this](https://support.3scale.net/reference/activedocs)

Swagger offers a framework to build the API description as annotation on your source code for JAVA family languages (using JAX). There are also tools like [source2swagger](http://github.com/solso/source2swagger) that are language agnostic.


## Getting Started

### Installation

To install from rubygems

	gem install raw2swagger

from source

	git clone https://github.com/solso/raw2swagger.git
	gem build raw2swagger.gemspec
	gem install raw2swagger


### Using Raw2Swagger
 
To create the feeder object,

	require 'raw2swagger'
	feeder = Raw2Swagger::Feeder.new()


Add a new raw entry,

	feeder.process(entry)

An entry is a `Hash` that can be generated from logs, plugins, etc. Up to you. The hash looks like this:


	{
      "method" => "GET",
      "path" => "/admin/api/accounts/34333.xml",
      "status" => 200,
      "query_string" => "provider_key=foo&page=30%per_page=10",
      "body" => "",
      "host" => "raw2swagger.3scale.net",
      "port" => 80,
      "headers" => {}
    }

Another example on an entry:

	{
       "method" => "POST",
       "path" => "/resources.json",
       "status" => 200,
       "query_string" => "",
       "body" => {"id" => 10, "foo" => "bar"},
       "host" => "raw2swagger.3scale.net",
       "port" => 80,
       "headers" => {"Content-Type" => "application/json"}
     }

The `query_string` and request `body` fields can either be `String` or a `Hash`. The `headers` field must always be a   `Hash`.

The field `Host` is used to distinguish between APIs. You can use the same Feeder for multiple API's. 

After adding entries, raw2swagger will start figuring out the swagger spec, you can get it anytime with

	swg = feeder.spec("raw2swagger.3scale.net").to_swagger()

Since Feeder can hold different specs you must use the `Host` field to access the spec of the API that you want.
	
You only need to save it a file

	f = File.new("my_autogenerated_swagger_spec.json", "w")
	f.puts swg.to_json()
	f.close


The file [sample_api_traffic.log](https://github.com/solso/raw2swagger/blob/master/test/data/sample_api_traffic.log) contains +2000 entries from 3scale Account Management API that are used for tests. 


## How does it work?

After creating a Feeder object, you can start by processing a single entry

	GET /accounts/42.xml?key=foo

At this point raw2swagger will think that the API has only one resource (1 end-point) with one operation (a GET):

	/accounts/42.xml
	with a GET operation
	parameters: [key]

If you feed two more entries like these

	GET /accounts/54.xml?key=bar
	POST /users.xml

raw2swagger will output an improved spec that has 2 resources,

	/accounts/{account_id}.xml 
	with a GET operation
	parameters: [account_id, key]
	
and

	/users.xml
	with a POST operation
	parameters: []

Note that it has learned that there is an `account_id` parameter. Therefore the previous entry `/accounts/42.xml` is subsumed since 
`/accounts/{accounts_id}.xml` is more general. Also, it knows that `account_id` is a required parameter.

The more entries you feed to raw2swagger, the better the spec will become. 

### Considerations


Feeder has one optional parameter

	f = Feeder.new(:occurrences_threshold => 0.20)

The default of `:occurrences_threshold` is 1.0, which will generalize paths as soon as possible on an eager fashion.

If you never want to generalize paths use 0.0. 

Typically 1.0 works very well but for some API's it can cause an over-generalizations, for instance:

	GET /api/users.xml
	GET /api/applications.xml
	GET /api/features.xml

Might end up having

	GET /api/{api_id}.xml

To avoid such events, we recommend tuning the `:occurrences_threshold` value until you are ok with the results, 0.2 works pretty well.

The 0.2 means that it will only generalize two segments of a path if both segments are 5 times less frequent (1/0.2) that the most frequent path segment. This is an heuristic that helps distinguish those path segments that are parameters from those who are constants.


## Contribute

Fork the [project](http://github.com/solso/raw2swagger/) and send pull requests. 


